Evaluating if a combo is good or not in Soulcalibur 6. Ignoring if the starter is good or not.
For every combo starter:
Step one is to find the highest damage inescapable  combo. Sometimes the combo counter lies and it is possible to block between hits, break and/or duck throws, air control out, or ukemi/not ukemi out, so check all those options. It is also helpful to check if the combo works on every character, as some will not (character specific combos can still be useful, but you want to know if it is character specific before you try it in a match). This combo will be called the "true combo".
If you find combos that only drop due to the escape options, but they do more damage than the true combo, then they may be useful. If you can find another combo, or set of combos, that work on all the ways that the other combos drop (so there isn't an option that you do not have a combo for), and they ALL do more damage than the true combo, then you should note them down for future evaluation.
You will want to note things like what advantage do you have at the end of the combo, corner carry, and ring out / wall combo potential, but for now we are only considering damage. For the most part, losing more than 5 damage is probably not worth it unless you get a huge reward elsewhere.
Now if you don't have a set of combos that cover every escape option you should always use the true combo. This is because your opponent is a person, and people can learn things and choose the worst option for you if you let them. If there is a way to reduce the damage then they will always chose that option, and you will not have a way to punish them for doing it. "If it works" only works until it stops working, then you've shot yourself in the foot.
If you do have the full set of combos to cover every escape you now get to do math. Luckily there are some quick ways to know if a combo is bad.
1: Find out what the mixup is. For example, if you have a combo A that is escaped by 4/6/no ukemi, another combo B that is escaped by 4/6/no ukemi, another combo C that is escaped by only no ukemi, and another combo D that is escaped by only 4 ukemi, then you can ignore combos A and B because the mixup is between 4/no ukemi, and those two combos always lose to both choices.
2: Take the amount of damage each combo does over the true combo's damage, then do the same for how much damage you lose on the escape, and if the escape lets them punish you add the punish damage to the loss. Multiply the gains by the average amount of choices your combos beat, then multiply the losses by the average amount of choices your combos lose to. If losses are bigger it's probably a bad mixup and you should use the true combo instead. You can do then next step to make sure, if you want.
3: Find a free online matrix game calculator, or a nash equilibrium calculator (same thing for this purpose), and plug in your matrix (also subtract punish damage off the damage of an outcome that gets punished). You might need to muck around to figure out how to use it, but essentially you are trying to get the expected value (EV) of the mixup. If the EV is lower than the damage of your true combo then the mixup sucks and you should just do the true combo always.
4: Your mixup's EV is essentially the best possible damage swing of your mixup against an optimal player. You can make a judgement call based on how much of a non-damage advantage your mixup gives you on the gains and losses compared to the true combo (you should be looking at like an EV that is like 15+ above true combo damage before the mixup is worth it imo), and if it feels worth it then the mixup combos are good.
You'll notice that a lot of combos that aren't true combos are bad.
If you got a combo with real good knockdown advantage over the true combo then you can ballpark how much damage that is worth by putting your post combo mixup damage into the calculators, and if the EV is making up for the damage lost (plus the EV of the post combo damage mixup for your max damage combo if it gets one) then that combo is probably good. You can also just make a judgement call, I usually ballpark 5 damage as a justifiable loss, but it would depend on your character and the matchup.
Final step is to write the combo down, with the damage and any important notes, and add it to the wiki if it is better than the combos there.

Here's a shorter version:
Step 1, make sure that there is no way to block between hits, break and/or duck throws, air control out, or ukemi/not ukemi out of your combo.
Step 2, make sure it is the highest damage combo that passes step 1 you get from that starter for that amount of resources (or that gains that amount of resources)
Step 3, write the combo down because it's probably the best combo.
Step 4, make sure it works on every character, and while off axis, before you use it in a real match.
